1. Pick a Programming Language : Many programming languages are used to create Android apps. Still, we will stick with two popular android programming languages: Java & Kotlin. Let's discuss each language and its learning resources
    1.1. Java Language: This is one of the high-level languages, class-based, object-oriented language, that is general purpose and used in many industries like desktop applications, android applications, web apps, and more. 
    1.2. Kotlin Language: This is a cross-platform and general-purpose language, and it can be used in the web, android apps, iOS/macOS apps, embedded systems, and much more. This language was developed to interoperate with the Java language fully and is also easier to learn than Java.

2. Java Language Resources Learning android apps development is a good skill set to have. Still, you have to know the Java language first before jumping into developing android apps, so let's first start by recommending some of the java resources to get started:
    2.1. Java Fundamentals This course aimed to teach beginners the Java programming language by learning the basics of Java such as variables, the control flow such as for & while loops, string, and more. Then you will learn to work with classes, arrays, object-oriented programming, and much more until you are an intermediate user of this language.Many resources are available to learn the Java language. Still, you can search for more if you don't' like them, and probably there are tons of YouTube videos and blogs teaching beginners this language.
    
3. Learn Kotlin Programming languageKotlin language is also one of the best and famous languages for developing android apps and creating iOS/macOS apps, web apps, embedded systems, and more. Let's see some of the best resources to get started:
    3.1. Kotlin for BeginnersThis course is excellent for starting your journey to learn the kotlin language, and you are willing to invest some money in yourself. You will start as a beginner without any skills. You will learn the basics of kotlin language, such as data types, variables, conditional statements, arrays & lists, functions, object-oriented programming, and more.There are a lot of resources to learn this language if you can't' afford the price of a udemy course. Go ahead and search on youtube for a complete course for understanding the kotlin language and start this journey.

4. Learn DataBase DesignThe database stores the data in the android apps and the web. Being an android developer, it is a skill that you need to learn for storing some users' data on their phones, but sometimes it is not required for storing the data because it depends on the app itself. Let's see some resources on how you can design the database:
    4.1. Relational Database DesignThis course will teach you to create effective relational database design without knowing the SQL language. You will learn the data modeling process, database design, relationships, creating tables & columns, identifying identity for the tables & attributes, and more.There are many database types, not only relational databases but also NoSQL and more but the most used one in the android apps is SQLite, a relational database that uses rows & columns.
5. Developing Android AppsI will recommend this excellent Udemy course that will help you to develop android apps using Java and Kotlin languages:
    5.1. The Complete Android Developer CourseThis is an excellent course to teach you to develop android apps using two languages in only one course. You will learn to add images & files & videos to your app, advanced android features, maps & geolocation, Instagram clone, super Mario app clone, and much more apps.
